Today, we want to present to you our revolutionary invention – CM-24.

The astronauts in space are faced with one big problem. Researchers say that the astronauts spend only six and a half hours sleeping instead of he intended eight and a half which are needed for all daily activities. The reason for that is the lack of gravitation which plays a vital role in the circadian rhythm (sleep cycle) and the physiological parameters that affect the sleep in a different ways.

The advantage of the CM-24 over the sleeping solutions so far that are currently used by the ISS such as sleeping pills and ear plugs is the simulation of gravity that will bring the feeling of actual laying on the bed. We made this possible using repulsive force between two magnets, in our case solenoid attached to the ISS power grid and cover with magnetic properties. The cover is placed over the astronaut and because of the magnetic force the cover simulates the gravity’s pull he would feel when lying on a bed on Earth. The cover itself is made of three layers from different materials that carry different properties. The outer-most layer is made of rubber magnet. The middle layer is nitinol wires, interlocked in a net with intend to shield the astronaut from the magnetic field. These wires have high magnetic permeability, which causes the magnetic force lines that have a tendency to pass through low resistance materials, to pass through them, automatically making a barrier between the astronaut and the magnetic field. The last layer makes the cover comfortable and also smooth and pleasant to touch. All three materials are with extraordinary elasticity, contributing to the comfort and satisfaction of the astronaut. Also, these materials allow the cover to follow the surface of the body, that way every point of it will be under equal pressure as a result of the homogeneous magnetic field.

As we said before, not only the absence of gravity, but also the physiological parameters affect the sleep of the astronaut. For that purpose, we created an app that in a simple way gives the astronaut advice how to normalize the specific parameter. For example, if the app get notification that the astronaut is fatigue, the app advises him to rest, take a break from the current activity and similar. The function of this app can also be applied not only to improve the astronauts sleep, but to improve his whole well-being in space.

All of these functions that CM-24 offers are necessary for the astronaut’s journey in space. We used one of the main forces in physics, the magnetic force in combination with modern technologies and succeeded in finding a solution fora major problem that will not only improve the experience of the astronauts in space, but will also make a huge difference in the success of their missions.

